# buildscripts

## Container-based development

### Development workflow

Tools are provided such that the code can be compiled on different distros regardless of the distro running
on the development host. This is achieved by providing suitable docker compose files, a simple Makefile and
separate buildscripts for each stage of the build process. Development can be done entirely on the developer host
without needing to push upstream.

Importantly, any suitable linux distro can be used as the development host provided that make, docker-ce,docker-compose,
are installed.


#### Requirements

The container-based workflow requires the installation of:

- make
- docker-ce
- docker-compose

on your development host.

Importantly, add your username to the docker group so that sudo is not required:

- sudo usermod -aG docker $USER

and logout, log back in.

#### Preparation

On first checkout the base container that is required has not been made. This is an expensive
operation (>15 minutes) which only needs to be done once:

```bash
make
```

#### Development

Make changes to code and test them:

```bash
make unittest
```

For full tests:

```bash
make
```

#### Start from clean system

To restore a pristine environment (does not remove the base container):

```bash
make remove_container
make clean
```

and proceed with further development as described above. This does **not** revert any code changes made.

To remove the base container:

```bash
make remove_base
```

Be warned that this will require rebuilding the base container which can take > 15 minutes

### List of make targets in priority order

```bash
make remove_base       # deletes the docker base container
make remove_container  # deletes the docker containers except base container
make clean             # returns build environment to pristine state - does **not** revert any code changes
make generated         # create autogenerated code
make check             # statically checks code
make unittest          # runs unittests
make artifacts         # make the artifacts
make                   # cleans and makes artifacts - execute this **before** pushing upstream to check errors
make functest          # runs server in container and executes client from buildscripts/functest.sh
```

### Debugging

Before executing any make targets set an environment variable to 'DEBUG' to see log output:

```bash
export GOLANGGRPC_DEBUG="true"
make
```
and log messages will be emitted.

### Artifacts

- HTML coverage is described in htmlcov/ - point your browser to htmlcov/${sub}/index.html
